docs: Populate READMEs (#3047)
endojs/endo: packages/cli/README.md

> # `@endo/cli`

Reviewer: If we're finally committing to this convention, this PR should update [skel](https://github.com/endojs/endo/tree/master/packages/skel) and/or [create-package.sh](https://github.com/endojs/endo/blob/master/scripts/create-package.sh) accordingly.

Command line interface for the Endo daemon.

## Overview

The `endo` command provides a user interface for managing the Endo daemon,
a persistent host for guest programs running in Hardened JavaScript.
Through the CLI, users can run confined programs, manage named values, send
messages, and control the daemon lifecycle.

> See [`@endo/daemon`](../daemon/README.md) for more about the underlying daemon.

Reviewer 2: Do you expect to similarly flesh out daemon/README.md ? Without knowing it yet, my only suggestion is to turn some mentions into links.

## Getting Started

This package is not yet published to npm.
To use it locally, clone the Endo repository and run from the workspace:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/endojs/endo.git
cd endo
yarn install
cd packages/cli
yarn start        # Start the daemon
yarn endo --help  # Run CLI commands
```

Or invoke the CLI directly:

```sh
node packages/cli/bin/endo --help
```

## Daemon Lifecycle

Start, stop, and manage the Endo daemon:

```sh
endo start      # Start the daemon
endo stop       # Stop the daemon
endo restart    # Restart the daemon
endo ping       # Check if the daemon is responsive
endo log -f     # Follow the daemon log
```

Reset state:

```sh
endo clean      # Erase ephemeral state (logs, sockets)
endo purge      # Erase all persistent state (requires confirmation)
```

## Running Programs

Run a confined program:

```sh
endo run program.js
endo run program.js --powers NONE    # No special powers (default)

> endo run program.js --powers AGENT   # All of the primary user's agency

Reviewer 2: Is this an ACL check? Is the right to act as primary user sharable? transferable? deniable to programs that run as me?

endo run program.js --powers ENDO    # All of the power of the daemon
```

Make a persistent worker wherein programs can run:

```sh
endo make worker.js --name my-worker
endo make worker.js --worker existing-worker  # Reuse a worker
```

Bundle a program for later use:

```sh
endo bundle ./app --name my-bundle
endo run --bundle my-bundle
```

## Managing Names

Endo uses petnames to refer to values.
Each agent has its own namespace of names.
A path of names can traverse into nested namespaces.

```sh
endo ls|list                    # List known names
endo ls|list some-directory     # List names in a directory
endo ls|list path.to.directory  # List names in a deeply nested directory
endo show my-value              # Print a value
endo cat my-blob                # Dump blob contents
endo rm|remove old-name         # Forget a name
endo mv|move old-name new-name  # Rename

> endo cp|copy src-name dst-name  # Duplicate a name

Reviewer 3: I had to do a double take to realize that the `|` in `ls|list` was meant as a BNF-style lexical alternate, since the `sh` lang context otherwise primed me to think you were trying to pipe-into some `list` command

```

Create directories for organizing names:

```sh
endo mkdir my-directory
```

## Evaluating Expressions

Evaluate JavaScript in a worker:

```sh
endo eval '1 + 1' --name two
endo eval 'a + b' a b --name sum   # With named values as arguments
endo eval 'x * 2' --worker my-worker --name doubled
```

## Agents and Messages

Endo supports multiple agents (personas, profiles) that can exchange messages
and capabilities.
These personas can be held by people, confined programs, bots, or AI agents.
People can have more than one.

Create agents:

```sh
endo mkhost alice           # Create a host agent (unlimited local authority)
endo mkguest bob            # Create a guest agent (limited local authority)
```

Send messages with embedded references:

```sh
endo send bob "Here is @my-value for you"
endo send bob "Take @this-thing:your-name"  # Recipient sees it as "your-name"
```

Check inbox and handle messages:

```sh
endo inbox                  # List received messages
endo inbox --follow         # Follow messages as they arrive
endo adopt 1 value-name     # Adopt a value from message #1
endo dismiss 1              # Delete message #1

> ```

Reviewer 3: is this is supposed to be the "alice" host inbox from above? how do we know?

# `@endo/cli`

Command line interface for the Endo daemon.

## Overview

The `endo` command provides a user interface for managing the Endo daemon,
a persistent host for guest programs running in Hardened JavaScript.
Through the CLI, users can run confined programs, manage named values, send
messages, and control the daemon lifecycle.

See [`@endo/daemon`](../daemon/README.md) for more about the underlying daemon.

## Getting Started

This package is not yet published to npm.
To use it locally, clone the Endo repository and run from the workspace:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/endojs/endo.git
cd endo
yarn install
cd packages/cli

> yarn start        # Start the daemon

Reviewer 2: Apparently should be

```suggestion
yarn endo start   # Start the daemon
```

endo list path.to.directory  # List names in a deeply nested directory
endo show my-value           # Print a value
endo cat my-blob             # Dump blob contents
endo remove old-name         # Forget a name (or: endo rm)
endo move old-name new-name  # Rename (or: endo mv)
endo copy src-name dst-name  # Duplicate a name (or: endo cp)
```

Store values:

```sh
endo store --name my-blob --path ./file.txt    # Store a file
endo store --name my-text --text "hello"       # Store text
endo store --name my-data --json '{"a":1}'     # Store JSON
echo "data" | endo store --name piped --stdin  # Store from stdin
```

Create directories for organizing names:

```sh
endo mkdir my-directory
```

## Evaluating Expressions

Evaluate JavaScript in a worker:

```sh
endo eval '1 + 1' --name two
endo eval 'a + b' a b --name sum  # With named values as arguments
endo eval 'x * 2' \
  --worker my-worker \
  --name doubled
```

## Agents and Messages

Endo supports multiple agents (personas, profiles) that can exchange messages
and capabilities.
These personas can be held by people, confined programs, bots, or AI agents.
People can have more than one.

Create agents:

```sh

> endo mkhost alice  # Create a host agent (unlimited local authority)

Reviewer 2: Is 

```suggestion
endo mkhost alice  # Create a host agent (All of the primary user's authority)
```

correct? It borrow language from the earlier comment about `--powers AGENT`

endo mkguest bob   # Create a guest agent (limited authority)
```

Send messages with embedded references (alice the host sends to bob the guest):

```sh
endo send bob "Here is @my-value for you" --as alice

> endo send bob "Take @this-thing:your-name" --as alice  # bob sees it as "your-name"

Author: The intention is for the user experience to converge. That is, the same keystrokes should have the same effect in the Familiar. However, the Familiar is at liberty to solve the Hotel problems in different ways. Namely, it does not simply parse this text, but typing `@` puts you in a pet-name completion context. Pressing `:` advances you to the link-name context. Pressing SP or TAB in either of those contexts should complete the token/chip/card. Pressing Esc should leave an `@` literal.

And, this is subject to user feedback. The intention is for it to be as fluent as chat and there are other idioms we can bring to bear. For example, we could instead ask the user to select text and ⌘K to convert the text to a link and  prompt the user to designate a capability.

```

Check inbox and handle messages (bob the guest receives from alice):

```sh
endo inbox --as bob               # List bob's received messages
endo inbox --follow --as bob      # Follow messages as they arrive

> endo adopt 1 value-name --as bob  # Adopt a value from message #1

Reviewer 2: Which value from message #1 ?

Btw, I had a good talk with @warner that has me questioning whether we should send message-scoped names at all, since they are a new concept, vs an edge name rooted in the sender, which is also a new concept at this point, but will be a necessary concept anyway?

Author: Edge names and name hubs are a useful concept, but put the user in a position where they are not just interacting with the recipient but to all their name hub’s subscribers. Messages are more intimate.

endo dismiss 1 --as bob           # Delete message #1
```

Request and grant capabilities:

```sh
# bob (guest) requests a capability from alice (host)
endo request "I need access to the database" --as bob --to alice

# alice (host) reviews inbox and grants or rejects
endo inbox --as alice                      # See bob's request

> endo resolve 1 database-ref --as alice     # Grant request #1 with a named value

Author: This does indeed mean as you say. I am adding a `reply` verb for messages in general but it’s not equivalent. Replying to a request does not necessarily resolve the request with any particular of the named powers in the response. Having a separate verb for this kind of message gives the Familiar UI a hint about how to present the request.

I am expecting that we will do a lot of iteration on the discriminated union of message types.
